Base sample-prop implementation and docs (alternative to #21284) (#22083)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/metadata_routing.rst

  ``Group*Fold`` splitters.
- ``"param_name"``: if this estimator is used in a meta-estimator, the
  meta-estimator should forward ``"param_name"`` as ``sample_weight`` to this
  estimator. This means the mapping between the metadata required by the
  object, e.g. ``sample_weight`` and what is provided by the user, e.g.
  ``my_weights`` is done at the router level, and not by the object, e.g.
  estimator, itself.

For the scorers, this is done the same way, using ``.set_score_request`` method.

If a metadata, e.g. ``sample_weight``, is passed by the user, the metadata
request for all objects which potentially can accept ``sample_weight`` should
be set by the user, otherwise an error is raised by the router object. For
example, the following code would raise, since it hasn't been explicitly set
whether ``sample_weight`` should be passed to the estimator's scorer or not::

    >>> param_grid = {"C": [0.1, 1]}
    >>> lr = LogisticRegression().set_fit_request(sample_weight=True)
    >>> try:
    ...     GridSearchCV(
    ...         estimator=lr, param_grid=param_grid
    ...     ).fit(X, y, sample_weight=my_weights)
    ... except ValueError as e:
    ...     print(e)

>     sample_weight is passed but is not explicitly set as requested or not. In
>     method: score

Reviewer: I think we want a bit more guidance in this error message
```suggestion
    sample_weight is passed but method `score` does not explicitly request it
    or ignore it. Please use `set_score_request`.
```

  >>> from sklearn.pipeline import make_pipeline
  >>> n_samples, n_features = 100, 4
  >>> X = np.random.rand(n_samples, n_features)
  >>> y = np.random.randint(0, 2, size=n_samples)
  >>> my_groups = np.random.randint(0, 10, size=n_samples)
  >>> my_weights = np.random.rand(n_samples)
  >>> my_other_weights = np.random.rand(n_samples)

Weighted scoring and fitting
----------------------------

Here ``GroupKFold`` requests ``groups`` by default. However, we need to
explicitly request weights in ``make_scorer`` and for ``LogisticRegressionCV``.
Both of these *consumers* know how to use metadata called ``"sample_weight"``::

  >>> weighted_acc = make_scorer(accuracy_score).set_score_request(
  ...     sample_weight=True
  ... )
  >>> lr = LogisticRegressionCV(
  ...     cv=GroupKFold(), scoring=weighted_acc,
  ... ).set_fit_request(sample_weight=True)
  >>> cv_results = cross_validate(
  ...     lr,
  ...     X,
  ...     y,
  ...     cv=GroupKFold(),
  ...     props={"sample_weight": my_weights, "groups": my_groups},
  ...     scoring=weighted_acc,
  ... )

Note that in this example, ``my_weights`` is passed to both the scorer and

> ``~linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``LogisticRegressionCV``.
```

> Error handling: if ``props={'sample_weigh': my_weights, ...}`` were passed
> (note the typo), cross_validate would raise an error, since 'sample_weigh' was

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Error handling: if ``props={"sample_weigh": my_weights, ...}`` were passed
(note the typo), cross_validate would raise an error, since "sample_weigh" was
```

not requested by any of its children.

Weighted scoring and unweighted fitting
---------------------------------------

> All scikit-learn estimators requires weights to be explicitly requested or not
> requested when used in another router such as a ``Pipeline`` or a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All scikit-learn estimators requires weights to be explicitly requested or explicitly not
requested when used in another router such as a ``Pipeline`` or a
```

``*GridSearchCV``. To perform a unweighted fit, we need to configure

> :class:`~linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV` to not request sample weights, so

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:class:`~linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV` to not request sample weights, such
```

Reviewer 2: It's ok as is. I thought it would be nicer with "such". It was just a suggestion.

that :func:`~model_selection.cross_validate` does not pass the weights along::

  >>> weighted_acc = make_scorer(accuracy_score).set_score_request(
  ...     sample_weight=True
  ... )
  >>> lr = LogisticRegressionCV(
  ...     cv=GroupKFold(), scoring=weighted_acc,
  ... ).set_fit_request(sample_weight=RequestType.UNREQUESTED)
  >>> cv_results = cross_validate(
  ...     lr,
  ...     X,
  ...     y,
  ...     cv=GroupKFold(),
  ...     props={"sample_weight": my_weights, "groups": my_groups},
  ...     scoring=weighted_acc,
  ... )

Note the usage of ``RequestType`` which in this case is equivalent to
``False``; the type is explained further at the end of this document.

If :class:`~linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV` did not call

> ``set_fit_request``, :func:`~model_selection.cross_validate` will raise an
> error because weights is passed in but

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``set_fit_request``, :func:`~model_selection.cross_validate` would raise an
error because weights was passed in but
```

:class:`~linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV` was not configured to recognize the
weights.

Unweighted feature selection
----------------------------

Unlike ``LogisticRegressionCV``, ``SelectKBest`` doesn't accept weights and
therefore `"sample_weight"` is not routed to it::

  >>> weighted_acc = make_scorer(accuracy_score).set_score_request(
  ...     sample_weight=True
  ... )
  >>> lr = LogisticRegressionCV(
  ...     cv=GroupKFold(), scoring=weighted_acc,
  ... ).set_fit_request(sample_weight=True)
  >>> sel = SelectKBest(k=2)
  >>> pipe = make_pipeline(sel, lr)
  >>> cv_results = cross_validate(
  ...     pipe,
  ...     X,
  ...     y,
  ...     cv=GroupKFold(),
  ...     props={"sample_weight": my_weights, "groups": my_groups},
  ...     scoring=weighted_acc,
  ... )

Advanced: Different scoring and fitting weights
-----------------------------------------------

> Despite ``make_scorer`` and ``LogisticRegressionCV`` both expecting a key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Despite ``make_scorer`` and ``LogisticRegressionCV`` both expecting the key
```

``sample_weight``, we can use aliases to pass different weights to different
consumers. In this example, we pass ``scoring_weight`` to the scorer, and
``fitting_weight`` to ``LogisticRegressionCV``::

  >>> weighted_acc = make_scorer(accuracy_score).set_score_request(
  ...    sample_weight="scoring_weight"
  ... )
  >>> lr = LogisticRegressionCV(
  ...     cv=GroupKFold(), scoring=weighted_acc,
  ... ).set_fit_request(sample_weight="fitting_weight")
  >>> cv_results = cross_validate(
  ...     lr,
  ...     X,
  ...     y,
  ...     cv=GroupKFold(),
  ...     props={
  ...         "scoring_weight": my_weights,
  ...         "fitting_weight": my_other_weights,
  ...         "groups": my_groups,
  ...     },
  ...     scoring=weighted_acc,
  ... )

API Interface
*************

A *consumer* is an object (estimator, meta-estimator, scorer, splitter) which

> accepts and uses some metadata in at least one of their methods (``fit``,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
accepts and uses some metadata in at least one of its methods (``fit``,
```

``predict``, ``inverse_transform``, ``transform``, ``score``, ``split``).
Meta-estimators which only forward the metadata to other objects (the child
estimator, scorers, or splitters) and don't use the metadata themselves are not

> consumers. (Meta)Estimators which route metadata to other objects are routers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
consumers. (Meta)Estimators which route metadata to other objects are *routers*.
```

supports ``sample_weight`` in ``fit`` and ``score``, it exposes
``estimator.set_fit_request(sample_weight=value)`` and
``estimator.set_score_request(sample_weight=value)``. Here ``value`` can be:

- ``RequestType.REQUESTED`` or ``True``: method requests a ``sample_weight``.
  This means if the metadata is provided, it will be used, otherwise no error
  is raised.
- ``RequestType.UNREQUESTED`` or ``False``: method does not request a
  ``sample_weight``.
- ``RequestType.ERROR_IF_PASSED`` or ``None``: router will raise an error if
  ``sample_weight`` is passed. This is in almost all cases the default value
  when an object is instantiated and ensures the user sets the metadata
  requests explicitly when a metadata is passed. The only exception are
  ``Group*Fold`` splitters.
- ``"param_name"``: if this estimator is used in a meta-estimator, the
  meta-estimator should forward ``"param_name"`` as ``sample_weight`` to this
  estimator. This means the mapping between the metadata required by the
  object, e.g. ``sample_weight`` and what is provided by the user, e.g.
  ``my_weights`` is done at the router level, and not by the object, e.g.
  estimator, itself.

> For the scorers, this is done the same way, using ``.set_score_request`` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the scorers, this is done the same way, using ``set_score_request`` method.
```

If a metadata, e.g. ``sample_weight``, is passed by the user, the metadata
request for all objects which potentially can accept ``sample_weight`` should
be set by the user, otherwise an error is raised by the router object. For

> example, the following code would raise, since it hasn't been explicitly set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
example, the following code raises an error, since it hasn't been explicitly specified
```
